Hi friends
In this video we are going to discuss about the
break statement in C
The break statement can be used in several cases
Like if you want to terminate a loop or to
terminate a case in switch
Now let us see how the break works
When a break statement is encountered inside a loop the
loop will immediately be terminated and the control goes to the
next statement
after the loop
Now let us see the syntax of break it is
very simple
Just write break followed by a semi colon
Now let us see the usage of break using a
simple programme to execute the loop until user enters a
negative number
So we have the programme here and we have the
main function and an integer variable
num is declared and we have a while loop here
and it is while(1)
So the condition is always true
So it is an infinite loop and in each iteration we
ask the user to enter a number and that is
stored to the variable num
And if num less than 0 we have to break
and come out of the loop and execute the next
statement. Otherwise
Just print the number and continue
So let us suppose user enters number 5 which
will be stored in num.
And when the if condition is checked it fails.
So print the value of which is five and first
iteration is over. Now we check the while condition again
which is true
So we ask user to enter the number
Let us assume this time it is 10 and it is stored in
num And  condition fails again. So print 10 and
it will go for the third iteration and ask the
user to enter the number Let it be -1
Now it will be stored in Num and when it
checks the if condition it is true
So it will break out of the loop that is
control comes out of the loop and executes the next
statement which is return zero here
So that is how it works
Now let us learn about break inside a nested loop
So we have an inner loop and outer loop here and
break is inside inner loop
And if it gets executed than the inner Loops execution
will be stopped and it will start executing the next
line of code after that block
So that's all and thank you for watching this video